(list of components and tools used for experiment)

Before one can proceed with these experiments, a few concepts need to be understood.

Ohm’s Law is a law stating that electric current is proportional to voltage and inversely proportional to resistance. Ohm's Law has the following formula : U = R * I. 
R = total resistance of a resistor in Ohm
I = current through that resistor in Amp
U = voltage on that resistor is Volt.

The power equation is an equation used to determine how much power is going through a component.
The following formula must be used in order to make use of the power 
equation : P = U * I.
P = total power on that component in watts.
U = voltage on that component in volts.
I = voltage on that component in amps.

(explanation of serie and parralell circuit)

The experiments can begin once these concepts are understood.
first course of action was to establish certain questions. The purpose of these questions is to give a better understanding of the entire project as a whole. We then use the answers of these questions
The following questions were formulated along with their answers:

How can we determine the value of a resistor?

The answer to the first question is actually three different answers. All of which have varrying results depending the three variables within the Ohm's law formula.

the first answer would be to simply read the value of it with a multimeter. See figure 1. This would be the most efficient way since the readings are the exact values of the resistor. 

the second answer would be to read it using a color scheme. Each resistor usaully has four colored stripes marked on them. All of these colors have a value that can be determined using a resistor color scheme. For example red has a value of 2 in the first three digits. See figure 2. the first two (sometimes three) values are just numbers. The second to last value is the multiplier which we will multiply the value which we got from the first stripes. The last stripe would be the tolerance stripe. This is how much the total value of the resistance can deviate.

the last answer would be to calculate the value of the resistance. this can be done by measuring/determining the value of the battery. Then connect the resistor within a circuit that you can build using a few cables, the resistor and the breadboard. The current in the circuit can be measured using a multimeter. see figure 4. With this value, the resistance can be calculated using the voltage from the battery that was previously measured and the value of the current that was just measured. Using the Ohm's law formula we can determine the resistance. Which in this case would be: R = U / I.

How can we determine the power on a resistor?
This can be done using the power equation and the values that were determined in the experiment. In this case, multiplying the voltage and the current. The voltage and the current are the values that were measured from the previous question. There is no need to re-measure. 

What happened within the experiments can now be discussed now that all the questions were answered.
in this experiment a random resistor was picked and used from the bunch. see figure 5. 

The color scheme is first used. The following colors are visible, from left to right: Yellow, blue, red and Gold.
This resistor specifically is a 4-band resistor. The first two bands are yellow, with a value of 4 and blue with a value of 6. The third band is the multiplier and that is x100  in this case. the fourth band is a gold colored band. This means that the actual value of the resistor can deviate by 5% from the total resistance. 
This resistor is then a 4.6kOhms with a tolerance of 5%.

the multimeter is used up next to measure the resistance.
First, the resistor is stuck into the breadboard. The multimeter must be now powered on with both of it's measuring needles in the correct holes. We then add each needle on seperate`ends of the resistor to measure.
the measured value received was exactly: 4.672 kOhms. 

A circuit was made around the resistor so that the value of the resistor could be calculated. see figure 6.
A few wires are directly connecting to the battery via transformer. Use the multimeter to measure the voltage on the battery. The value received was 8.4V . The battery was then connected on the breadboard along with the 4.6kOhm resistor that was picked. The current was then measured by connecting 2 stray cables in the open circuit and making it a closed circuit by connecting both needles on each end. The value is then read from the multimeter and in this case it would be: 183mA. The resistance can now be calculated using the Ohm's law equation. The measured current's value is measured in milliamps. this needs to be converted to amps which is easily done by dividing the value by 1000. the new value is: 0.00183A.  This means that R = U / I ==> 8.4V / 0.00183A = 4590.1ohms. 

As stated before, the power through a component can be calculated using the power equation.
The power can now be calculated using the same measured and calculated values. this measn that P = U * I ==> 8.4V * 0.00183A = 0.015372 Watts.


What is the maximum amount of current that can pass through that resistor without problems? 
this is done by aknowledging first that the current resistor that is being used, is a 1/4 resistor according to the max power specifications. see figure 7. meaning the current can be calculated using the follow formula: P = U * I
==> 1/4 = 8.4 * I. I would then be 0.029A. this is accurate because the total current that is being used in the circuit is only 0.00183A. This value is way lower then the max current possible. This means that there shouldn't be any problems working with this resistor. Aas long as the current in this situation stays below 0.029A.

Are the measurements from the calculations, the multimeter and the color scheme accurate to one another?
Once compared, the information gathered should either match the eachother or not deviate too much from eachother.


things we found strange:
blowing a fuse
short circuiting


