step 2:

we are using a green led. based on the datasheets we determined that the max amount of forward current that can pass through this led without it being damaging is: 30mA.
we then need to determine the Uf which is done by checking datasheets. after this we can use kirchoffs law to determine that the: U - Ur - Uf = 0 => 7.5V - Ur - 2.5V = 0. 
So Ur = 7.5V - 2.5V = (5.0)V.
with 5.0V we can calculate the resistance needed for the LED using ohms law. R = Ur / If. 5.0V / 30 * 10^-3 A = 

166.67ohms.!!

to get the power we use the formula: P = Ur * If. 5.0V * 30*10^-3 A = 0.15Watts which means that the resistor is still safe because the power needed to exceed this is 0.25watts. 

step 3:
we start off by measuring the resistor we are using. we started off with 4.667kOhms of resistance. this means that the circuit is safe however there is a chance it will not even turn on due to low voltage. We have measured multiple resistors and ended up using the lowest in our box. this one had a measured value of 

329.3ohms. 
We double checked with the color scheme and it indeed matches with a color from left to right being: orange, orange, bornw, gold.

(we need to make an online circuit of this and show where we measured.) 
voltage: we determined from datasheets that the forward voltage would be aprox. 5.0V when we measured both the resistor - and the led voltage we found the following values: Vr = 5.5V and Vf = 2.0V. according to kitchoffs law, these values check out as correct. 

(we need to make an online circuit of this to show how we measured)
current: we determined from datasheets that the max forward current can be 30mA. when we measured this in the circuit we found the following value:

If = 15.30mA

The reason for such a change in values can be due to misreading a graph in the datasheet (anomalie) and the fact that one is the actual value of the current and the other is the max amount of current it can take.

step 4:
based of of the illumination graph of the green led, the value for forward currne ton led is 15mA. which has a luminous intensity of 1.1Ispec. the half of this would be the half brightness which is 0.505. however as you can see on the graph you cannot go any lower than 1.0. the conclusion here is that you cannot half the brightness of the green led without touching the voltage source. Since if you go a higher current you would fry the led if it passes the 30 max If threshold.

with the yellow LED we determined that the relationship between the resistance and the current are indeed proportional. If you want half the brightness, you would need half the current. and if you have half the current you would need double the resistance. In practice this all checked out.








